Alright everyone and welcome to chapter number 3.
In this chapter we are going to implement the local data and persistence related utilities.
So basically right now you guys can see that we have a home page.
Okay onto the home page we are going to fetch all the recent stories that we have.
Okay.
stories that we have. Whenever someone click on this recent story, we wanted to redirect
user towards the I can say story.tsx file and we know very well what is happening inside
this story.tsx. What is happening?
Inside this, let's say this is your page like this is our images and inside with images
we also have the paragraph.
And at least we can say that we have 10 images with paragraph.
Okay, does we understand this?
Yes or no?
Do let me know.
Yes, we understand.
Okay, what is the next step?
Next step is right now we don't have any database.
Yes, this is very clear and we are not going to use any database.
We are going to use something known as async storage.
Okay, and we have a great knowledge about async storage.
What is async storage and how we can use it?
So, with the help of this async storage, we are just preparing a bunch of we can say method
like save story.
So, what does this mean?
This is basically going to step accept the AI response and then this AI response will
Okay, so this AI response will basically going to save inside the async storage.
Now if we have a save story in same way we can have get stories.
Okay, like just to show all the recent story onto the home page.
We understand that.
Okay, in same way get stories right now you can see that this is the get stories what
is the meaning of stories we are fetching multiple stories but whenever I redirect myself
towards the detail page of story then what is the name of the function try to guess that
out.
Yes, that is get story.
What is this get story mean?
Get stories basically give you the stories we can say on the basis of ID like if you
provide me the ID of the story then I will give you all the images and the paragraphs.
Okay, but if we have a get story, then we can also have a delete story just to delete
the all the stories which is generated by AI.
And we also have a clear stories.
So this clear stories will remove all the stories that is available.
inside the async storage.
So does this make sense now?
What is the next step we wanted to do right now?
We don't have any AI response, but still we are just preparing our application.
So the moment we simply hit the AI, AI will give us return and give us the response.
So we are going to see how that is actually works.
So don't worry about it.
Alright, so for that I wanted to use here something known as React Native Async Storage.
So you can simply search for React Native Async Storage and we know that how to use it very
well.
So this is the documentation for the React Native Async Storage and if I am not wrong
We also have.
The website for it.
I think this is the documentation.
Yes, yes, yes.
We know that.
Okay.
So you can just simply use it and let me just simply copy this command.
Very good.
And after this, what I will do first of all, let me open this into the.
physical device.
Let me CLS this and let me simply install it.
So this will become npm add react native async storage async storage.
Okay.
All right guys, so I have also reloaded my application and we have installed this package.
Now we know very well that how basically my
All of this API is going to create.
What I am talking about let me tell you.
First thing is very simple.
Simply at the root of this I wanted to create one lib.
Inside this lib I wanted to have one storage.ts.
Now what is this storage.ts?
This is where all the functions will live.
Okay.
All the function related to saving the story, getting the stories, get story, delete story
and delete stories and clear stories.
Alright so let's move ahead and what is the next step?
Very simple first step is let's come into the documentation and what is the documentation
is saying to us?
We can simply go inside the usage.
So inside the usage you will see they are saying us to import it.
Okay we know that.
So, let me just simply copy it now we have the async storage perfect what next?
Next we know that for saving data inside the async storage we need a key.
So, what I will do I will follow the good practice and I will create one constant I
can simply say this as stories key.
And you can name it whatever you want, but I am saying it as AI_story_jgenerator and
stories.
Again, you can name it anything you want, but this looks a bit professional.
That's why we are using it.
And then secondly, we can have something known as Max Stories.
What is this Max Stories?
at max how much you can store is save inside your async storage.
Okay, so this is your Mac stories, no rocket science, easy, perfect.
Then what I will do, I will try to basically, like let me try to explain you one thing.
One thing we know for sure, what is the structure of our AI response if I just go to the story.
Okay, so story have one something known as image and then a paragraph what I am talking
about let me tell you if I just simply go to my story.tsx okay if I open this story
you will see first thing we have a title okay then we have a paragraphs what is this paragraphs?
Paragraph will have two thing.
First thing we have an object, object contain two properties, first one is the paragraph,
so what is this paragraph?
This is the paragraph that we are showing here, okay, first thing is clear, this is
the paragraph that we are showing onto this card, but second thing is prompt to image,
now what is this prompt to image?
So, this prompt to image like now we know that we have first thing is paragraph ok we understand
now what is the use of this paragraph now we have prompt to image.
So this is your prompt.
With the help of this prompt, we will hit the backend API and this backend API will
use some AI tool to generate the image because we already have a prompt and what is this
that value prompt image.
So this will basically give you the image URL.
Yes, backend API will hit some AI service.
that specific AI service will give you this image URL on the basis of prompt to image.
So that is why if I coming to here you will see we have this image URL.
So from where this image URL is coming.
this image URL is depend on the prompt to image.
Okay, like this you can see that into the paragraph, we have paragraph and prompt to
image.
Okay, so with the help of this prompt to image, we are going to get the URLs.
So you will see that, don't worry.
So we wanted to save that.
So for now if I just simply say this as interface story.
part, okay and this story part contain two thing, you know that and along with the story
part we can also have I can simply say this as story response, okay.
So what is the story response?
Now what is the meaning of story response basically?
This one you can see that this is the story.
Story response have a title and an array of paragraph.
Ok, so first thing I can simply say title which is of string easy.
Now what next?
Next we have a paragraph.
Okay, so paragraph is the type of story part, but we know that this paragraph is an array.
So what I will put here, I can simply put one array symbol.
So this means this title and paragraph and this paragraph is type of story part.
Now what is the story part?
Very easy, story part contain one paragraph and prompt to image.
So what if I simply say here.
So, paragraph is string, second thing is prompt to image, ok.
Now this is start making sense, perfect.
What next?
Next is we wanted to save the story inside the local storage as well.
But along with title, paragraphs, I also wanted to store something known as some unique value.
We can say that just to identify a story uniquely because in future, as we know, we can store
On to the homepage, we are going to show all the recent stories.
So there should be some mechanism and there should be some data point just to uniquely
identify all the recent stories.
So how you can identify that we have what we can do like what you can do like let you
can just try to think, pause this video and try to think by yourself what I will do to
identify my all the generated AI generated stories.
uniquely. So what I am able to think is we can have ID and second thing we can have a
created at like when we create the story. This is a good point. One more thing which
is a prompt. So what is this prompt? Just to save that like this.
is the prompt we have used for this recent stories.
We can have bunch of stories.
Each story will have this data.
We know that each story will have this data, but along with this data, we also have the
ID created at end prompt.
I hope so.
This is making sense.
Perfect.
So what I will do, I will just simply say export interface, just let's say in future,
maybe we need somewhere else.
I can say what saved story because we wanted to save that.
Okay.
Then what I will see, say I will simply say extends because I wanted to extend it and
then I can say what story response.
So we wanted to extend this story response interface.
simple syntax.
What is the three thing I wanted to extend?
I wanted to add a string.
I wanted to add created at which can be of number or date depends.
And last thing is the prompt, which is the type of string as well.
Very good.
Nice.
And what next we can have next I will create all the functions that I need.
So first function that I need is I can simply say export const save story.
I can simply say this as saveStory and this saveStory will be async and we will use some
function related to this.
Along with saveStory we can have getStories, getStory, deleteStory and clearStories.
So I will copy this.
to paste this.
I think is three time is enough.
So the second name is get stories.
Okay, so I'll paste it out.
Let me change it by myself.
Get stories.
Third one is get story.
Last is delete story and very last is clear stories so that we wanted to clear all the
existing stories that we have.
Okay, let's start first of all creating this save story.
Now what is this save story will going to do?
Now, whenever we wanted to save some data, I need the AI response and we know how AI
will respond to us if I just simply come into here and try to break my saveStory method.
So, this saveStory method will accept some data to save.
So, I can say that first thing that they are going to accept.
is the story like which story you wanted to save, second thing is what is the user's
prompt so that we can also store that depends I mean ok, what is the user's we can say
prompt because nowhere in the story part or in the story response we are storing the user's
given prompt.
We are adding the prompt to image, but this is generated by AI itself.
We'll see that.
But right now we have this.
Okay.
So first thing they are going to accept is the story and this story is type of story
response because this is the story generated by AI and then we are going to call this save
story to save that into the async storage.
Second thing we have, we need prompt because we wanted to store prompt as well.
Then I will say what try and catch.
And then one very interesting thing they are going to return us what they are going to
return us the promise.
This is just a bunch of typescript things.
Okay.
So, no worry.
Then I can simply say what saved the story.
Yes, they are going to return us the data in this format.
We are giving the story response, but whenever the data will come, they have ID created at
prompt, title and paragraphs and paragraphs is the type of paragraph and prompt image.
Easy making sense.
Okay.
So, what is the first step?
Next step is...
Create this save story data.
Okay.
Firstly, I wanted to have what I will do.
I can simply say saved story.
Saved story is equals to what I can say whatever all the data I have previously.
I'm basically just spreading this.
whatever story response I have, so all the properties of it which is title and paragraph
spread them here so that we can have extended object.
Then second thing what we need, we need id, yes we need an id, we just simply getting
id, id is type of string so it is up to you how you want it to give the id, I can simply
use the date.now.
So, this will basically return the number of milliseconds elapsed since midnight January,
whatever is that and then I can simply say two strings so that convert this data into
the string.
Second thing is when this is created.
So, I can simply say date dot now.
So, this will return again the milliseconds, but this is in number right now and second
thing is the prompt.
Third thing is the prompt.
So, now we have the prompt.
Okay, so always before storing this data, what do you think the steps should be?
We know in two async storage we are only supporting 50 stories at max.
So do you think like first of all I wanted to check.
is we have how much basically we can say let's in inside the sync storage we are done with
50 stories we already have 50 stories then do you want it to allow user to store the
51th story no we wanted to check how much slots are left let's say we have deleted
50 stories and now we have only we have only added 40 stories.
So, how much slash, how much slots are left?
10 are left.
So, I can add 10 more data, okay, 10 more data into it.
So, first thing is always calculate how much is left for me, but for that, I can add 10
more data.
We need to get the existing stories.
So right now let's say I can simply saying this as existing stories is equals to await
get stories.
We don't have this function for now.
This is just initialize.
This get story will give you all the stories that we have.
This get stories will give you all the stories that we have and then what I will do?
I can simply say updated stories is equals to whatever this is your new data.
Okay take this and then all the existing data simply spread them out and one last thing I
wanted you to do is to simply slice them out from zero to the max stories that we have.
Now what is the work of slice?
return a copy of section of an array.
From both, start.
and, and, ok, and a negative index can be used to indicate an offset, ok, we do not need
to understand about negative index for now, we can simply ignore them. What is the first
start? This is the beginning index of the specified position of the array, we are starting
from the zero. Second thing is end. End will?
the end index of the specified portion of the array. This is exclusive of the element at the index end. If end is undefined then the slice extends to the end of the array. Basically this is excluded. This is not included.
So, 0 to 49 only will covered kind of, okay.
Then what I will do?
I will simply say await, use this async storage, then simply say set item and then key.
First thing is always key.
Now what is the name of the key?
Story is key.
I can simply get the story is key.
What next?
Next, I can say JSON stringify because you can't store the raw object.
So you need to stringify them and then add all the updated stories we have.
Okay because we are adding the new story here.
Perfect.
So, we only support 50 stories at max and then I will return the saved stories, but
by any chance if we have any error then I will simply return this error.
Cool.
Perfect.
So, this is your saveStory method.
Now let's move ahead and start implementing the next which is name of getStories.
Now what is the getStories?
getStories is simple.
Simply use this key and get the data and return it.
Such a easy function.
So, what I will do?
I can simply say try and catch.
const data is equals to await async storage dot get item you can see we have lot of method
but we need get item then I will simply give the stories key now I have all the data ok
One simple check, if we do not have any data, then we simply wanted to return the empty
array.
But if we have the data, then as you know, in the time of storing this data, we have
stringified this.
So we need to parse it just to get into the proper object format.
Parse, parse the data.
But again, if we have any error, then we simply return this error.
And one last thing that you can do, you can even add the types here, but you can see this
is already stop throwing error, but I will help you.
I can simply say return the promise of type saved story.
This is definitely the array.
Now you will see this is the type which is coming and now we are good to go.
Cool.
What is this getStory will do?
Now we know when we are going to call the getStory, getStory will call on the story.tsx
page, basically the detailed page.
So we need ID for it and then we will simply going to filter it out.
Easy, find it out, whatever.
So first thing is simply use this ID.
type of string and then what I will do I can simply say try and catch for getting the one
story on the basis of this ID we don't have any mechanism that we will directly call this
API and get the data what we can do.
We can first of all get all the data that we need.
Okay.
Let's say this is your data one, data two, data three, data four, data five.
Everyone have some ID.
Okay.
We can have one ID.
We can have two ID, three, four and five.
and user wanted to get the data for ID number 1.
Ok, user have passed the ID 1 into the parameters.
Then what will happen?
You are simply going to run a find method.
So find method will start finding.
Does 1 is matching with 5?
No.
Does 1 is matching with 4?
Does matching with 3?
Nope.
Oh come on Suraj, it's very easy to understand.
No problem.
Does it matching with 2?
No.
Does it matching with 1?
Oh yes, it is matching with 1.
So what is the strategy?
We will simply going to return this data.
Take this one, this is matching with this one.
Okay, so this is your data.
We simply wanted to return this data.
Okay, so what I will do, I will first of all get all the stories that I have basically,
get stories.
Now we have all the stories here.
Does it making sense?
No problem.
What is the next step?
Simply find on the basis of this id.
So I will simply say return only that data where stories.find, this is the find method.
We have each story, then I can simply say if the story.id is matching with the parameter
id then return this data, but there can be some cases where nothing is matched.
Then I wanted to return null here.
Perfect, then simply say console error and you can also return this.
I can copy this one and right now does this is going to return the stories into the format
of array.
No, I do not think so because we are only giving the one.
So if I remove this array, does it making sense?
Yes, it is making sense.
We are not only returning the save story, there are some cases we are also returning
null.
So, what I will do?
I can simply say return the null return the null and yes look at that simple delete stories
are also very simple we simply going to filter it out and going to again set the.
So, simply this is also going to accept the string and then what is going to happen?
A simple try and catch then I can do what?
Stories.
Okay.
This is your const stories.
Again, delete means whatever the ID you are going giving me I am simply going to run a
filter onto this stories and then filter that out and wanted to return it simple.
So what I will do const stories get stories ok and then inside this what I will do I can
simply say what updated stories because this is the new stories set that I need.
I can simply say stories dot filter.
not fill filter and this filter have s, s means the story.
If s.id is not matching with id then and only return the data because what I am saying just
try to understand.
Let us take this example.
Okay.
Let me just take this term right now user wanted to delete the data ok, do not want
it to get that data.
So, let us say right now user wanted to delete the number 1.
So, how you can delete it?
We simply going to run a filter, filter is saying if this one will not matching with
the story id then we wanted to return them.
So, basically is 1 matching with 5 no.
So, we need it.
Is 1 is matching with 4, no?
So, we also need this, is 1 is matching with 3, no, so we also need this, is 1 is matching
with 2, no.
So, we also need this.
Is 1 matching with 1?
Yes, yes, it's matching with one.
So, now we do not need it, remove it.
So, this is your updated set of data and then we are again going to run async storage dot
set item with this new updated data.
This is what I am talking about.
This is the statement.
Then what I will do again, simply say a sync storage dot set item.
And then again, simply pass the storage key.
And then second thing is JSON dot stringify the data and whatever the updated stories
will come.
Okay.
Nice.
This is what I'm talking about.
But again, by any chance, if we have any error, we'll simply return the error.
And while deleting we don't want it to return anything but when it's come to clear we simply
wanted to use the remove item method and clear everything.
So if I just simply copy and paste that method nothing is going to break or harm us.
Okay, so this is the simple method.
What is the await async storage dot remove item and the key of that item is stories key.
And by any chance if we have any error we simply going to return this error.
So now we are done with all the stories storage related logic.
Now we have all the methods related to storage.
Perfect.
What next we can do only one thing that I wanted to do is simply go inside your index.tsx file
and inside your index.tsx file what we can do we can simply run a method load stories.
So basically whenever for the first time I am visiting on my index page so I wanted to
just run a use effect.
This use effect will call.
We will call the get stories method.
This will call a simple get stories method so that if we have any existing stories, we
simply wanted to render them onto the UI.
So that is the first goal I wanted to have.
This is let's say story one.
In same way we can story two and story three.
You got the point.
So, if I now simply go to my index dot tsx and what I will try to do, I can simply say,
you know what, I can simply first of all maintain a state variable and then simply name this
as recent stories and set recent stories.
This is equals to use state and then I can say what saved story type because this is
the type of saved stories?
And, this will be empty array initially ok.
And then in same way we can have a show history and then set show history and then I can say
cons router is equals to use router.
And let me import my use router from expo router and then let me simply format this up.
So what is the next step?
Next step is first of all create a function.
So the function name is load stories.
load stories will be type of async.
What is the work of this loadStories?
Very simple.
We simply going to call this method here and whatever the data will come, we will update
the state variable.
Okay, simple, very simple.
So I will simply open try and catch first step.
Second is I will get all the stories from the getStories method.
Nice, now we have all the stories, what is the next step?
Next step is we will only going to fetch the last five recent stories because you know
we can have up to 50 stories, but we don't want that, we only wanted to show the latest
five stories here, okay.
Alright, so now let's move ahead and what you will do, you will simply say set recent
stories all the stories that I have but please slice them out from 0 to 5, so we only need
0th, 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th, so basically first 5 stories.
But then what I will do again simply say but if the stories dot length is greater than
0 then simply do what simply do right now show history as true.
But by default this is also true but ok.
Otherwise by default I can mark as at false.
Okay, and then by any chance if we have any error then I can simply show the error here.
Simple a simple console and then I need to simply run a use effect.
So I will simply say use effect.
Bro, just coming to here and then call this use effect.
So, I can simply say this as load stories.
This is simply load stories and then simply pass empty dependency array.
Cool.
Nice and then what is your next work?
Next work is simple, very simple below this example prompts, okay, below this example
prompts simply coming to here and then open this and then say what recent stories if length
is greater than 0.
then and only show this, okay.
Then and only render this component.
Otherwise need not to render it.
Okay. So what if I just simply grab the whole component and paste it out and let just try to understand.
Initially, we are simply showing a view. First thing, easy, simple.
Second thing, a simple touchable opacity, which is just a toggle button.
Okay, which is just a toggle button for showing the recent stories.
Okay, so the moment you click set show history will become the not of show history.
So let me keep it true for now.
If this is true true to false, false to true.
What is this?
I'll explain it.
Then we also need a flat list.
This flat list will render all the data onto some UI, a simple card type of UI.
And let me also initialize here, const handle open story.
So the work of this story is to redirect you towards the main story page.
So this is your flat list.
rendering item and then scroll enabled is false for now and if I save it nothing is
going to change and let me try to reload it once as well so that we can see at least nothing
is breaking.
Okay, and right now you can see that nothing is showing which is fine.
Why this is not showing?
Because we know that the length of recent story is zero for now.
Okay, let's say if I just reverse the condition.
which is always going to throw, we are still not seeing anything.
It's fine, I can save it for now, need not to touch anything else.
Okay, right now, the only work of this chapter and thing is just to create this, all of this
function.
So with this, we are done with chapter number three and amazing, amazing job.
See you next time.